Deep Dive: 11 principles for building a great startup culture

Everybody knows that company culture is important. But it’s hard to know exactly what makes for a great culture.

In today’s deep dive, I compile 11 principles for building a great culture from:

Ben Horowitz (cofounder of Andreessen Horowitz)

Ben Silbermann (founder of Pinterest)

Jack Dorsey (founder of Twitter and Square)

Brian Chesky (founder of Airbnb)

Patrick Collison (founder of Stripe)

Eric Schmidt (former CEO of Google)

Naval Ravikant (VC and founder of AngelList and Airchat)

Reed Hastings (founder of Netflix)

Keith Rabois (VC and former executive at PayPal, LinkedIn, and Square)

Peter Thiel (founder of PayPal and Founders Fund)

Jeff Bezos (founder of Amazon and Blue Origin)

Upgrade
#1 Culture is not a set of beliefs. It’s a set of actions.
a16z cofounder Ben Horowitz’s book What You Do Is Who You Are is my favorite guide to company culture.

He explains that culture can feel abstract and secondary when you pit it against a concrete result that’s right in front of you, but it’s a strategic investment in the company doing things the right way when you are not looking. It’s the set of assumptions your employees use to resolve the problems they face every day. It’s how they behave when no one is looking.

Is that phone call so important I need to return it today or can it wait until tomorrow?

Can I ask for a raise before my annual review?

Is the quality if this document good enough or should I keep working on it?

Do I have to be on time for that meeting?

Should I stay at the Four Seasons or the Red Roof Inn? Should I go home at 5 p.m. or 8 p.m.?

Should we discuss the color of this new product for five minutes or thirty hours?

If I know something is badly broken in the company, should I say something? Whom should I tell?

Is winning more important than ethics?

If you don’t methodically set your culture, then two-thirds of it will end up being accidental, and the rest will be a mistake.

In the clip below, Ben cites the quote from The Way of the Samurai: “A culture is not a set of beliefs. It’s a set of actions.” And goes on to explain:

“[Culture is] not what you believe, it’s not what you think, it’s not what you tweet… who you are is what you do… the behaviors are the culture, not the values. When people say they have 20 values, I ask how many of those behaviors they have. If it’s none, your culture is hypocrisy.”


